docs(uiux): update introduction page for ui-ux project (#306)
fossology/gsoc: docs/2025/ux-ui-design/index.md

---
sidebar_position: 1
title: Introduction
slug: /2025/ux-ui-design/
---
<!--
SPDX-License-Identifier: CC-BY-SA-4.0

> SPDX-FileCopyrightText: 2024 Devanshi Sachan <devanshi221102gmail.com>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
SPDX-FileCopyrightText: 2025 Devanshi Sachan <devanshi221102gmail.com>
```

## Project Title

FOSSology UX and UI Redesign

## What’s the project about?

This project aims to redesign the FOSSology interface with a user-centered design approach that enhances usability and accessibility. The redesign will focus on improving the navigation, making it easier for users to find what they need and complete tasks more efficiently. Enhancing visual hierarchy, and ensuring consistent formatting, we will create a more intuitive experience. A scalable, reusable design system will be developed to ensure that the platform can grow and evolve in the future. Iterative testing and user feedback will guide the design process, ensuring that the final result meets user expectations and improves their overall experience with FOSSology.

## What should be done?

### Evaluating the Current Interface

Identifying usability issues through a systematic analysis of FOSSology’s current interface using these methods:

- **Cognitive Testing - VIMM Model**
    
    Evaluating cognitive load in interactions, including visual, intellectual, memory, and motor effort required for common tasks.

- **Usability Analysis - Heuristic Principles**

>     Analysing the interface with Jakob Nielsen’s 10 usability heuristics to identify violations such as inconsistency, lack of feedback, or poor error handling etc, and recognize areas of improvement.

Reviewer: Please use ASCII text for easy rendering :-)

```suggestion
    Analysing the interface with Jakob Nielsen's 10 usability heuristics to identify violations such as inconsistency, lack of feedback, or poor error handling etc, and recognize areas of improvement.
```
